my YouTube channel has grown over
123,000 subscribers in just the last 5
months we've earned over
$65,000 adcense alone what is my secret
weapon well she's here with me today my
guest today is Liz Germaine the owner
and founder of vid fluence she has
collectively helped her clients achieve
over 800 million views her clients
include people such as myself shellene
Johnson Tony Robbins JJ Virgin she
started off as a YouTube U herself but
got so inep to the analytics and
understood realized this is what's going
to make all the difference for people
who really want to make their mark on
YouTube really everybody thinks they
have a viewer and subscriber problem but
actually they have an ideas and
analytics problem so without further Ado
I bring to you our expert our Guru Liz
thank you so much for joining us today
so excited to be
here thanks for having
me we're so cute yes girl
Liz thank you so much for joining me
today here on build your tribe where we
are going to break it all down I'm so
excited to be here thanks for having me
thank thank than I want to say thank you
for having me as a client because um I
know that I can be stubborn and and I
have my own beliefs about how things
need to be done I've been working with
you now for over a year and I do have to
say that it wasn't until I like truly
was like okay shelene she's the expert
just do exactly what she says even if it
doesn't make sense you just do what she
says and so you can kind of see like the
I think we've added over 200,000
subscribers in the last year but
over2 some odd thousand of those were
just in the last five months where I'm
finally like okay everybody just do what
Liz says to do yeah totally I know it
was a slow burn but we made it and
you're actually on the exponential
growth path now which is really the goal
I say to everyone who I recommend you to
I'm like she is like a YouTube
scientist the way she studies the
numbers behaviors
and you kind of just have to trust the
data but so many other social media
experts are telling us you know unless
you're producing content new people
aren't seeing you and um and so I kind
of was reluctant to believe that and
also my thought was like I'm going to
let down that subscriber who's expecting
a video from me every single fill-in the
blank so can you share with us is this a
new trend or is this something that's
always kind of been there yeah so it
really just comes down to how YouTube
algorithms actually work which is very
different than how Instagram or Tik Tok
for example work so social media apps
like Instagram Tik Tok even Facebook
video they are all timeline bound which
basically means you do have to keep up
with the rat race of constant posting
but the way that YouTube essentially
works is much more Evergreen so you
could post one video and if it's a
really good video and it's really
valuable to the people that are watching
it that video could then perform for the
next five even 10 years so you don't
have have to keep up with this AR you
know like an arbitrary quota that you
have to meet of oh we have to post this
many times a day the focus on YouTube
actually needs to be on relevancy to the
viewer and performance and how they're
interacting with the content itself and
so if we can get really good at those
pieces then we don't have to post as
frequently I guess the the belief is or
for me anyways thought was okay but if I
have a video that's doing quite well and
you know I know a bunch of people watch
it wouldn't I want to capitalize on that
and then you know give them something
more so they keep coming back to my
channel well yeah so here's the thing
and this is what we did with you is
basically what we're trying to do
especially in deploying YouTube organic
growth strategy in the beginning is
studying the patterns and the content
that performs the best for the
particular viewer that we're looking to
attract so we have a whole process
behind becoming that viewer and actually
looking for the patterns in the topics
that are being covered the title
structures the way the thumbnails are
designed the way that the content is
edited and put together because there's
a big difference between like an
entertainment challenge Style video like
Mr Beast would do versus a more
educational talking head Style video so
the first thing we want to do is get
really clear on who is the viewer that
we're actually trying to attract and
then we become them and study the
patterns in the content that YouTube's
recommending to us most so when you
understand those core pieces in the
beginning when you deploy the strategy
you're basically running into an
experimental testing mode right so it's
like let's put out 10 solid videos that
based on the patterns we found when we
were doing that research have a high
likelihood of also performing well
because the reality of YouTube it's not
going to recommend your content on the
homepage or and suggestions which is
really the traffic sources we're trying
to get on YouTube unless the content is
really good and unless it's performing
really well with the viewer that we want
to attract so in the beginning we have
to figure out what those patterns are
and we do that by looking for little
breadcrumbs that other creators have
dropped for us and recreating that
package in your own unique way and
ultimately over time really everybody
thinks they have a viewer and subscriber
problem but actually they have an ideas
and analytics problem and so as you
start studying the patterns and top
performing content that are already
being recommended to your viewers you
reverse engineer those patterns and
recreate them in your own content and
then we are in close relationship with
the performance data on the back end
through your analytics you can basically
blow Beyond any other Creator out there
because nine times out of 10 most people
they don't even open their analytics
they don't know the breath of
information that's available at their
fingertips inside of that data for me
that was a really fun part of this I was
very reluctant as you know I'm like I
don't want to bottleneck myself into
like one type of content and you're like
you don't have to let's just like what
are the types of content your girl would
like to see um let's let's play around
with all of it let's just talk like all
of the types of content you'd like to
produce and then we basically narrowed
it down and why don't you walk our
listener through those buckets like so I
would say originally I probably had like
20 different topics we did like a
shopping Hall I did um parenting advice
relationships Health talk I did fitness
workouts I did trying to think of some
of the other subjects like a whole bunch
of subjects you did A Lash review
remember that one that one well yeah so
we basically are looking for those
patterns and then creating content plans
based on what's already being
recommended most to those viewers and
then on what happens is let's say we put
out like the first 10 videos right some
of them did well some of them absolutely
bombed and so if we put out 10 videos
two or three of those are probably going
to do better than the rest and that's
really where stacking upon your top
performers comes in so ultimately when
we identified okay your particular
audience is really interested in fat
loss support Hormone Health and uh
midlife conversations essentially when
that started to emerge
and we started to see those patterns
then I was like okay cool let's double
down on that it's also another big thing
that came up was like foods to eat or
like skincare products to use that are
better for you than you know what you
can buy at theore yeah that that was
kind of crazy like the um I'm sorry to
interrupt you but like that was such an
unexpected like what I I mean I don't
think either of us would have expected
that the video I did on being a mouth
breather yeah kind of catapulted all
these other topics yeah it's kind of
like a little you you basically planted
a flag in this kind of combination of
like biohacking but also healthy natural
organic prevention techniques and health
support and so we did some spin-off
topics based off of that especially from
the patterns that we saw in that one
particular hey this video tightened my
jawline overnight or whatever it was
that original video it's like what else
can we do where we can also show a two-
panel transformation in the thumbnail
and that's when you brought up the
caster
that specific example because I think if
we share this specific example people
can think about their own spin-off so uh
what I did was a video talking about how
I started doing mouth taping and I had
done mouth taping for um for the reasons
like I was having dental care issues and
dry mouth and then I discovered and I I
just mentioned it in that video that I
discovered I felt like it kind of made
my jaw long
like more defined and then you were like
okay take a look at these comments and
you help me come up with some I guess
you would say adjacent or spin-off topic
so walk people through like what they
would be looking for to identify their
own spin-off topics Yeah so basically
one of the easiest things you can do is
go inside your analytics and look for
the videos that got the highest amount
of watch time highest conversion rates
as far as adding subscribers highest
impression rates TI view rates basically
look at your top performers and one of
the easiest things you can do is just
make a remake of that particular top
performer or make a tangent spin-off of
it so that's what we ended up doing
because there's only so many times you
can talk about mouth tape right but it's
like what is the actual value
proposition of that why did people like
that particular topic so much and what
else is kind of related to that that we
could also provide similar value in the
same type of format with it and so
that's where I asked you specifically
like okay when it comes to face
tightening like is there anything else
that you do with transforming your face
especially you know 40 plus that's a
very common very relevant thing that
every woman goes through so what else
can you give them in that regard because
we're looking at this is the value they
got out of that original video based on
what their core desires are so the core
desires like the lizard brain things
like how do I you know find a mate to
live my life with how do I elevate my
status in Society like there's some
essential core psychological desires
that human beings have and so what we
discovered with that original breakout
video which is what we would call a
video that outperforms your typical
average uh those are really the videos
that we want to figure out how do we
turn this into a group of related videos
that are similar and have a the same
type of value proposition okay and so
when I asked you that question you're
like oh I know what I'm going to do
because I've been starting to use castor
oil so I was like okay cool let's talk
about castor oil and how that can change
your skin and you know how that applies
to this core issue of wanting to feel
more desirable of wanting to belong
wanting to you know be perceived as
attractive especially as we get older
and the video just popped off and so
from there it's like all right how do we
now double and triple and quadruple down
on that core value proposition so
there's something called and you know
this now but there's something called
the 21-day window and this is
essentially if you have a breakup video
let's say you test an experiment with 10
different topics because you've found
these patterns and what your viewer
likes most and you only know that
because of what YouTube's already
showing you when you're acting like your
viewer on YouTube let's say you put out
10 videos two or three of them do better
than your typical average if that's the
case in about three to four weeks after
that video goes live that's the perfect
goldilock zone or the perfect window of
time to then re-upload a similar
variation of it or a spin-off topic to
it and so while this is not a hard and
fast rule it's like if you miss the
21-day window that's to fine the
original mouth taping video that you did
was I think a year old by the time we
started rolling out castor oil right so
it's not a requirement right but it it
does tend to be the sweet spot for
adding an additional related topic and
what it ends up being really good at is
bringing new viewers that discovered
that breakout video and have just seen
your channel for the first time that
21-day window is a perfect time frame to
bring people back to the channel to
continue watching more and this is
really important for everybody who has a
YouTube channel to understand because
all YouTube really cares about is the
relevancy to the viewer and the
performance of the content so if you
find yourself in a situation where it's
like wow this video did really really
well and this could be throughout the
history of the entire Channel then the
next step for you as a Creator is to ask
yourself how do I double down on that
how can I add more content that's
similar to it whether it's you know if
it's a super old video you could just
make an updated 2024 or 2025 whatever
that particular year is there's probably
new information that you have to share
your philosophies around that topic may
have shifted slightly so it's like let's
make a better higher quality version of
that on a year-over-year basis or the
other direction that you can go is let's
figure out what these tangent topics are
that have a similar value proposition
that are talking to those deep-seated
psychological drivers that human beings
have once we have an outlier and we're
like okay I I want to double down on
this uh I want to maybe you know do
basically the same video but in a
different way for our purposes what we
did first was a a video where I talked
about mouth Brea breathing and then also
talked about uh lymphatic face massage
and that did well and then we're like
okay now let's add um and you brought it
to my attention like you know there's
all these trending topics look at those
and see if any of them resonate with you
they're things you know so it's
authentic it's something you're actually
doing and I'm like yeah okay I can com I
do castor oil now when I do this facial
massage and castor oil seems to be
trending no one's really like talking
about using the two together in that way
and so once we have this outlier what
are some of the key ingredients that you
want to make sure you're replicating
either in the title or the thumbnail or
the first couple of
minutes yeah so I would say for most
creators the biggest opportunities that
you have lie within the thumbnail
designs so a lot of people especially
when they're first getting started on
YouTube they're adding in you know
everything in the kitchen sink inside
the thumbnail it's like hold on the
breaks first of all we call this
packaging okay because if we can't get
the click it doesn't matter what the
video even is so packaging is the first
foot in the door and it's really really
important because if you don't get the
click they're not going to watch the
video anyways so what we would consider
packaging is the way the title is
written in the thumbnail design itself
along with the topic that's being
covered in general okay plus we also
want to be looking at that first 30 to
60 seconds because on YouTube If you
hover over a video it will start autop
playing it almost like a preview so
first 30 seconds has become a part of
the click decision so when we talk about
packaging for most people the thumbnail
designs are actually the biggest
opportunity that nine times out of 10
anybody that comes to work with us
actually has because nobody trains you
on this stuff right so like dude even
though YouTube is studying this every
single day even Netflix is studying this
every single day there's tons of
Consultants out there just like me who
also study this because we understand
the importance of it the public and
general influencers or creators or
entrepreneurs they're not taught these
things and so one of the biggest aha
moments that I ever had that started not
only helping me get better results on
the channels that I own but also helping
clients like you get better results is
realizing how important the thumbnail
and the packaging pieces are and what
what makes up a really good thumbnail is
three factors first and foremost is it
simple and this is like shellene I just
told this to somebody the other day and
I think it'll resonate with your
audience too I learned this um advice
actually fashion advice from the
designer of the sex in the city and she
was doing some interview at some point
she's like you know good fashion is good
fashion doesn't matter where you get it
from but ultimately before I walk out of
the house I always look in the mirror
and I take one thing off that's a
CO yeah like you kind of want to do the
same thing with your thumbnails yeah
like you don't want to walk out of the
house being over styled and you know you
end up looking like a brochure ad it's
just like this amalgamation of all these
different combination of things like
whether it's text and face and logos and
all this stuff it's like you have 15
milliseconds that the brain of the
viewer is processing that information
with and they're going to look at the
thumbnail design first so we want to
make sure we keep it super super simple
um no more than three core elements
right so it's like core element like a
face text and a graphic or a face a face
if it's a podcast and maybe some text or
an image in between them um so we want
to try to use that rule of three as much
as possible anytime we go beyond that
and Ne Netflix has seen studies on this
too they put out a whole report about
you know which thumbnail images that
they were using in the Netflix app
actually got clicked on more and they
test this heavily and they found the
same thing is like three Core Design
Elements keeping it as simple as
possible is really the key so that's the
first big tip the second thing is using
color theory so you want to be asking
yourself what's the emotion that I want
my viewer to feel before I start filming
the video putting together the packaging
pieces or any of that and we want to be
using colors that are going to always
pop off of a white or black background
so here's the the main place where
people go wrong with color application
is that they try to add too many colors
in too many different shapes and it
becomes overwhelming and it almost just
become it's like you're looking at it
but you're not really looking at it like
you're driving by a billboard on the
highway your subconscious mind might see
it but it's not intriguing enough to
pull your conscious attention to it and
so when we're using color theory we want
to be also emphasizing the emotion that
we want the person to feel only using a
couple shapes and colors and also so the
last big tip for thumbnail Simplicity
and design is using some kind of element
that creates curiosity and Intrigue so
with this we want to create some kind of
movement or momentum or something to
draw the viewer's eye in and so a lot of
the times you'll see the biggest YouTube
creators in the world they'll utilize
things like red arrows that are pointing
to a specific part of the thumbnail but
you can't really tell what it is and so
that creates curiosity you're like what
is that pointing at I want to know right
so it's like we're trying to make it
this irresist able click decision for
them where they can't not click on it
and those are the three core elements
that most people even if you just
applied that alone your your clickr will
probably improve quite a bit and what
about the words on the thumbnails
because if I'm understanding you
correctly we our eyes look at the
thumbnail first and then we look at the
title is that accurate yes okay so so
with that in mind should we put in our
in our own planning should we say like
okay okay so whatever this video is
about it needs to be in the text of the
thumbnail yeah so here that's I'm so
glad you brought this up because another
big common mistake that I see people
make is they'll repeat the text that's
in the title inside the thumbnail so
they'll basically just put the title
text in the thumbnail we don't want to
do that we actually want to use
complimentary words to the title so if
the video is like top five foods for
easier fat loss over 40 something along
those lines then we wouldn't want to say
top foods for fat loss in the thumbnail
we also want to keep it under three to
five words at the absolute maximum so
instead a better combination would be
like try these or eat this or these work
or something like that that's
complimentary to it and also creates
that Curiosity because like what's the
this that I should be trying exactly
exactly yeah so you want to keep
everything as simple as you possibly can
this is something that it's like apply
that Sex in the City rule it's like look
in the mirror before you publish the
video and just take one thing off of it
and always be asking yourself how can I
simplify this down because we really
have 15 milliseconds it's not even a
full second so it's like this the easier
we can communicate this especially using
more imagery and relying way less on
Words the better that it's going to
actually perform one of the biggest um
most important pieces of advice that you
had continually given us until we
finally took it was that it has to be so
big um like too many of our images were
like small and they looked great on CA
they looked great if on my our screen
when we were designing it and by we I
usually meant me um and I thought it
looked like aesthetically pleasing like
graphically it was all put together
right um and you just kept coaching us
to like remember it's this big and your
typical viewer the person you're trying
to attract is over 40 she's already
wearing readers like you have to take
all these things into consideration and
so you taught us how to look at not just
our own uh thumbnail that we've designed
but look at it compared to everyone
else's that's about that size yeah and
there's um kind of two things here one
would be the 18% rule so we use
something called the 18% rule before we
publish any video with any thumbnail
we'll take the thumbnail design and we
shrink it down to 18% capacity because
that's essentially how it's going to
show up on mobile devices or smaller
devices and if we can't see the core
elements at 18% size then we can't use
the thumbnail and and so one of the
easiest things to do especially if you
have faces in your thumbnail is instead
of cropping from the waist up or the
even the chest up crop from the
shoulders up so we can see more of the
facial expression that's been proven to
actually increase clicks when we can see
complex emotions through people's fa
facial expressions and then there's a
really cool very helpful tool that we
use every once in a while if we need to
really test okay in all the different
traffic Source placements on YouTube we
kind of want to see what this packaging
is going to look like before we upload
the video
right it's called um thumbs
up.tv and all you have to do is just add
your title and you upload your thumbnail
image and then what that tool does is it
will show you what your packaging is
going to look like on the homepage in
video suggestions in the search bar Etc
so it shows you all these different
traffic Source placements and then you
can make strategic decisions on whether
or not that's something that your viewer
is likely to click on but it really
helps to actually see the packaging put
together because if you're just I in
isolation writing a title or you're just
designing the thumbnail you're not
actually getting the full experience
that your viewers is going to go through
right so thumbs up.tv is a really good
tool to be able to preview that before
you publish I'm so accustomed to using
my email list to promote anything you
know I spent a lot of time growing my
email list thank you for helping us to
grow our email list now using YouTube uh
but originally when I would produce a
video um my instinct was okay I need to
send an email to to my list and let them
know we just dropped this video I need
to promote it to my Instagram Etc and
and I don't know if your advice has
changed but in the beginning you were
like don't do that initially shellene
like let's let's let it get some
traction first and I was like but that
seems so counterintuitive like why
wouldn't I use my list to give it some
traction why wouldn't I promote it using
my other social media platforms can you
help us understand why that might not
always be the best strategy yes and
thank you so much for giving me a
Mountaintop to scream this off of
because it's the biggest mistakes I see
people make especially if you have a
really big Instagram audience really
highly engaged email list it seems like
the right thing to just push all your
videos out to them everything you do on
YouTube is very sensitive to traffic
sources and so there's really Three core
traffic sources that most entrepreneurs
and influencers actually want but they
don't know that they want those yet the
first one is the YouTube homepage okay
so when you go to YouTube.com how do we
get your videos to show up there in
those placements the second is suggested
videos so when some body's on the watch
page watching a YouTube video those
sidebar recommendations if you're on
mobile it's going to be under the video
itself and then the third one is YouTube
search okay everybody knows YouTube is a
search engine you can look for something
it's owned by Google you can type in a
keyword like you know what outfit should
I wear this this summer or cute summer
outfit ideas or whatever it is how to
repair a concrete
Fountain I
just so those are the three primary ones
that we want to attract more of to the
channel now there's an additional
traffic source which would be considered
direct or unknown or external okay so
external is like you sending people to
the channel to watch it now here's the
challenge with sending external
audiences either from email or from link
trees and bios or Instagram stories or
really any other place where they're not
already on YouTube ready to watch long
periods of time the videos that are on
YouTube is that when you use those
external traffic sources and you send a
flood of that traffic to the video a lot
of times they were doing something else
they were checking their emails they
were in the Doom scroll seeking dopamine
right on social media so they might
click on it out of curiosity but they
don't end up actually most of the time
watching through the entire video and so
if you this used to be different you
know five 10 years ago it used to be
standard best practice to try to get as
many people onto the content as possible
but as YouTube has evolved and has
started to prioritize user experience
more and more over time
when we send disengaged audiences that
we're doing something else to a video
from these external traffic sources they
get on the video they might watch 30
seconds maybe a minute maybe three
minutes if you're lucky but they were in
the middle of checking their email so
they're going to go back to doing that
or they were in the middle of their
scroll on their lunch break or whatever
it is so they're going to go back to
doing that and we don't want that
especially in the first week of the
upload we want to give the people that
are already on YouTube looking to watch
for long periods of time the best
possible chance of finding your content
and engaging with it at much higher
retention rates as possible especially
in that first seven to 10 days now after
that first kind of window where the
video's been up for a week or two most
of the time unless it starts to break
out and get really pushed out widely by
YouTube which you have had happen a
couple times if for most videos it's
going to typically have a little initial
Spike and it'll The Impressions will
start to kind of level off and that's
really the the key point of where we
want to then send the external traffic
too so it's not to say don't ever send
content on your YouTube channel out to
your list it's just that that first week
after you upload the videos is super
super sensitive because YouTube's AI is
looking at all the different engagement
stats what's the retention rate how many
people are clicking through are they
actually watching the video and so those
robots they don't know that hey this
person was checking email and so they
only watched a minute because they had
to go back to their email all they see
is that wow everybody's leaving at one
to two minutes in and so they'll just
basically assume that the video wasn't
good so let's stop recommending it and
it can actually H do more harm than good
now the way that YouTube works so crazy
the next question I want to ask you if
you can explain for people when you say
we want for YouTube for people to find
our content on the homepage or suggested
how is it is there a code how how do we
get there I mean I know we broke down
some of the things that can prevent us
from getting there is there anything in
particular other than just like you know
making sure you're going through this
checklist like with your thumbnail and
your your title in the first minute oh
this is such a loaded question but yes
there is um ultimately we need to be
studying not from and I think this was
honestly the biggest aha moment that you
specifically had that has unlocked these
better results for you is that just
because you think something should work
or not work does not mean the public
thinks the same thing and so ultimately
as a strategist now what I do every
single day is study what YouTube's
already recommending from other creators
because what we're trying to do is
isolate those patterns so those patterns
will typically come up in the topics
that are repeatedly covered the way the
titles are written and if you start to
look at YouTube not from an
entertainment angle but actually look at
it from an analytical lens and look at
what YouTube is already recommending to
you from other creators you'll start to
see patterns okay so especially in the
topics and the way that titles are
written the way the thumbnails are
designed or the formats of videos that
really pop off within your specific
industry or your specific Niche is
really really important that you become
your own viewer and study and isolate
those patterns um with title
specifically one of the biggest mistakes
is that uh people are making their
titles way too long way too wordy
they're writing them from their expert
perspective not from the Public's scope
of awareness so we want to make sure
that our titles are also easy to
understand understand and they're
concise and they're under 60 characters
as often as possible we don't want to
have 70 80 character long titles because
it's just takes too much brain
processing power for the human mind to
figure out what the video is about if
it's super long and wordy you're gonna
be like oh that's a word jumble I don't
have time for that right so it's like 60
characters or less we're using clear
concise language we're following the
patterns and top performing content
within your industry as a whole and
we're also using something that we call
click triggers so click triggers
are a specific thing that we teach where
it's the psychological underpinning for
why does somebody click on a video to
begin with and there's only about 10
maybe 15 different psychological click
triggers some of which include shock
fear curiosity numbered lists Authority
specific audiences things like that
right so it's like how can we take an
average title and make it a really
compelling title that somebody can't not
click on and that's really where click
triggers come in too it's like what's
the psychological underpinning for why
somebody would click on a video to begin
with and really the only reason that
people go on YouTube at all is Three
core categories one is education one is
inspiration and one is entertainment and
a lot of creators will have some
combination of all three but ultimately
we need to really understand who the
viewer is and what's actually going to
get them to click and so that's where
these psychological teachings come in
because it's not good enough to just
create what you feel like creating in a
day there's these two concentric circles
where we can create relevance there's
what you want to say and then there's
what your viewer actually cares about
and wants to watch and where those
circles intersect that's where we create
relevancy and the only way to really
figure that out is to become your own
viewer so we basically do this by
creating a dummy account where it's a
brand new YouTube channel you're gon to
give this away right now yeah I mean
we're g we're throwing it all out there
okay this so if you for some reason
we're just letting us talk in the
background pay attention because this
right here is Secret Sauce level
strategy it's gold honestly this changed
my
entire career trajectory the ability to
get results for people over and over
it's like okay I'm going to give you the
sauce you create a brand new YouTube
account and you don't interact with any
other content outside of your Niche you
only interact with content from your top
I don't even like to call them
competitors but it's like similar
creators to you
and eventually YouTube will learn that
hey you like that content and so what's
YouTube going to do especially with a
brand new account it's only going to
show you the best content on YouTube for
what you're interested in that's how the
algorithms are built and really all
YouTube cares about is can you get
somebody to click and watch a video the
to the number one thing that YouTube's
all of YouTube's different algorithms
are built to do is to increase the total
watch time that somebody spends on the
platform so we're not just trying to get
you know a quick win where one video out
of a 100 does well but that was it
we're trying to get more people to the
channel That find that video that did
well but then they go on to watch
another and another and another and
another so in order to create your
content strategy wouldn't it be helpful
to see what YouTube's already
recommending to your viewers of course
so that's why we create the dummy
account we basically become the viewer
we create a brand new YouTube account we
study the patterns and top performing
content and then from there we reverse
engineer the common things that we saw
that showed up on the homepage or in
suggestions you know nine times out of
out of 10 and we'll start to see
specific patterns that evolve like one
in particular that might be relevant to
people in the health space is this I
tried format yeah right so it's like I
tried keto diet for 30 days here's what
happened I tried crypto investing for 30
days here's what happened like you'll
see that particular format we're
publishing I tried a waited best for 30
days and here's what happened exactly or
I tried every single walking pad on the
market to find which work best right
like it that I tried basically the value
proposition of that is people want to
know the answers and they want to know
it in a way that it's not going to cost
them anything to figure out yeah so if
you can that's just one particular
example of a pattern in a format but if
you can show them that that's very
valuable to people so as you become your
own viewer you're going to start to
notice like wow everybody in my industry
is talking about the best foods to eat
or the things to avoid if if you want X
result or whatever it is those are the
types of patterns that we're really
looking for and then we inject them into
our clients strategies themselves we
actually call this the DJ Khaled method
because it's like it doesn't even have
to be within your own industry it could
be a really good very clickable topic
within a completely separate industry
and we'll just play DJ Ked and pull that
good packaging over into your universe
and reuse It remix it in a in a sense
because it had such good psychological
triggers that that concept itself could
be applied to any industry ultimately
you just need to understand what is your
viewer already seeing and engaging with
most so that you can recreate those
patterns in your own content when we did
this and took your suggestion in
creating you know a dummy account I
think the most
surprising realization I had was that
what I was seeing were not the kinds of
thumbnails I would
design because I I thought they were Che
they were cheesy and they were like
dorky or like I don't know just like not
very elegant if you will but they are
the thumbnails I'm clicking on and so
it's like okay it's not about like
Elegance or like graphic design or is
this the most beautiful thing for me it
was like okay I'm realizing what I
personally want to click on are these
weird thumbnails and so I've got to look
at that number one number two it helped
me to learn that I thought you know
there's we as entrepreneurs we all look
at the people who who are like you know
doing really really well and what we're
not doing is looking at their analytics
so we can't tell that they aren't
getting the kind of views that they once
were that their content isn't performing
as well and we just copy what they're
doing right so they all have these you
know exactly the same branded thumbnails
for every single show and so we think oh
I should have a exactly the same branded
thumbnail for every single show and you
know we were on one of our coaching
calls Liz and you said I said should
ours be really branded and you said I
don't know do you want new
viewers or do you want people who like
already recognize you I'm like I want
new viewers and you're like well there
you go then then you said which was just
such brilliant and simple advice create
an eye-catching thumbnail don't worry
about it being like branded who cares
yeah brilliant yeah and I think this is
this is tough too especially for people
I mean I think you would probably agree
with this influencers entrepreneurs
anybody that's living a self-directed
life you're used to applying what feels
good to you to everything that you do in
your Marketing in your offers and
literally everything it's like if it
doesn't feel good it doesn't feel
aligned and there is a spectrum with
that because you don't want to go so far
off the map that it's like wow this
feels really unauthentic to who I am but
at the same time just because you like
something does not mean that the public
or your audience is going to like it and
so that's really where that dummy
account tool comes in because we can see
those patterns and then and you know we
can do our best to recreate them but
it's definitely you know every video we
have to treat as a standalone piece of
content so whenever somebody's like hey
let me just let me just do a template
thumbnail because I don't have time to
deal with it it's like you're really
shooting yourself in the foot because
one particular topic out of 10 could
have had you know brilliant packaging
that somebody can't resist clicking on
it's not so much the like I you know I
don't want to deal with it like for
myself and I think a lot of other people
you know that aren't willing to invest
in a coach right like you're like well
why would I invest in a coach I'm going
to look at what the top people are doing
I'm going to copy what they're doing and
so that's what I was doing initially was
like okay I'm going to look at I don't
know like Diary of a CEO and he's got
you know you can always tell his
thumbnails are always the same but that
didn't work and I don't know if it's
working for him I just know he's got a
lot of subscribers so we make these
assumptions and the same is true like
even with our Instagram students and I
don't know why I didn't apply this to
YouTube but even with Instagram we tell
our students you don't want a branded
page you don't want all of your content
to look the same because you're trying
to attract new people and the people who
do already follow you you don't want
them to think to themselves did I
already watch this yeah exactly it kind
of cheapens the content in a sense
inadvertently but here's the thing about
Diary of a CEO specifically what they're
doing works really well for Their
audience because they have a very
different value proposition based on who
the viewers actually are so this is
something where I think all people need
to understand if you have a YouTube
channel YouTube channels are designed to
serve a single value proposition to a
specific audience and really your job as
the Creator is to figure out well number
one who is my audience what do they like
to watch most and how can I kind of
match and mirror those patterns But
ultimately um we want to also make sure
that we're not going too far outside the
bounds of the parent topic of what
they're coming to us for it's like while
you're experimenting you don't want to
be experimenting forever you can run
experiments with new styles of content
or new formats or new titling Styles new
thumbnail designs all of that but you
don't want to be doing that forever
ultimately we're trying to move a
channel to the point where it has four
or five proven repeatable Series so in
your case fat loss advice definitely a
proven Series right uh skincare over 40
definitely a proven series we could
basically cover a thousand videos yep
exactly Hormone Health proven series
like we know that that's relevant to
that particular audience so ultimately
we're trying to get a channel to the
point where it has four or five of those
and they're based off of the top
performers that were breakout videos
that we continue to stack up and
ultimately that's what becomes your
programming strategy for the channel so
then eventually you don't have to think
about it again so with a CH a podcast
Channel like Diary of a CEO the value
proposition is giving regular people
access to experts right experts on a
variety of different things the format
is always the same it's podcast right
it's like a 45 to 60 Minute epis episode
and you'll notice too with that
particular Channel they're they're
putting heavy editing in that in that
first one to two minutes because of what
we call inline views which is basically
when you hover over a video before
you're making that click decision you're
getting a preview of the video it's
autop playing right so that particular
audience because every single video is
the same and the value proposition is
giving them access to people they
wouldn't otherwise have access to it's
just going off the charts but here's the
thing is like you we also get this
happens a lot we'll have people come to
us that you know they got 500,000
subscribers or a million
subscribers but then we look at the back
end and it's like well are they active
subscribers and a lot of times no
they're not in his case he does have
active subscribers and you can see that
in the average views per video they're
very consistent people show up very
regularly and then maybe you know out of
10 videos you might have one or two
topics that were relevant to an even
wider audience and so he's pulling more
people in very regularly But ultimately
just because some a channel has a lot of
subscribers does not mean that they're
active subscribers so we really need to
be if you're going to play the
comparison game you also need to be
looking at the average views per video
on that channel and if somebody has you
know 300,000 subscribers but they're
getting a th000 views per video what
does that tell you right it's the same
on Instagram too I'm sure yeah well
there's a lot of people buying followers
on Instagram and also buying engagement
I I have no idea is that also happening
on
YouTube I've seen a handful of cases
where people have run ads to the channel
to try to get subscribers and they do
get subscribers oh I mean literally
buying I mean like buying fake comments
fake followers I don't see that very
often but I do know that it happens it
is rare but there are I mean there's bot
Farms everywhere you know it doesn't
matter the platform so people have this
like I don't know if it's an ego thing
or what it is but it's this desire to
seem yes I want to be very
highly regarded so I've got all this
clout it's so dumb let's talk about
watch time so watch time um you know it
seems as though the top
channels they're especially the PO the
ones who are doing YouTube podcasts
their podcasts are hella long like you
think about someone like Joe Rogan who's
no longer on YouTube but like his were
like three hours long someone like
huberman it's like 2 and a half hours
long there these really really long
sometimes um rambly sometimes very
scientific but they're long form I am
always worried about like what
percentage of the videos somebody has
watched through but what is more
important how long they've watched or
what
percentage Yeah so this is a really
case-by casee basis type of question and
inside your analytics you're going to
see two different stats there's average
percent viewed and then there's average
VI duration for me personally I always
like to make sure the average percent
viewed so this regardless of the video
length um if it's super long like
podcast format we're looking at like
between 20 to 40% is our ideal Baseline
um if it's a shorter 10 to 20 minute
type of talking head episode for example
we're looking for minimum 40% but up to
60 70% retention is kind of the goal
Baseline that we're aiming for now the
average view duration is the actual
number of minutes that somebody spent on
the content itself so
ultimately both of these two are it's
just two different ways of looking at
the same stat the same retention stat
essentially and I don't think that we
can look at this either one of these
metrics in isolation of The Impressions
the format of the content who the viewer
is what the overall goals of the channel
are so it's really a case-by case thing
but ultimately this is the only thing
that YouTube will publicly admit all of
their algorithms are built to increase
total watch time so total watch time is
the amount time that somebody spends on
YouTube whether on your Channel or
somebody else's that's what the
algorithms are all built to do and each
traffic Source has its own algorithm and
then there's an AI on top of that that's
very smart smarter than all of us that's
looking at over 80 billion different
data points for every user how many
different data points 80 billion per
User it's a
lot it's a lot with that in mind how
does
the so is YouTube more excited if I keep
somebody on one video a really long time
or do is it almost equal if I can just
keep them on my channel for a prolonged
period yeah so again it really just
depends who's the viewer what's the
format of the content what's a value
proposition overall of the channel
that's being provided so if you have a
podcast Channel we don't have to have as
high of average view duration as if we
have you know standard 10 to 15 minute
length videos If we have an hour
somebody could watch you know 10 20% of
that and that's still producing like 10
minutes of total watch time for US
versus if we have a 10 15 minute video
somebody watches you know 60 70% of that
maybe it's like seven 8 minutes right so
it's like we really need to get clear on
what is the value proposition that we're
providing for the audience and stay
consistent with that now with podcasts
in particular
um and really with any any channel any
value proposition any viewer no we don't
just want one video to do really well we
want that one video to then lead them to
another and another and another and
another so in the kind of context of
what YouTube cares about when it's
making recommendation decisions of
whether to push your content out to new
viewers and even returning viewers uh
that's one of the core things they're
looking at is like does this video
contribute to them going down a rabbit
hole of related content which is really
increasing the total time that they
spend on YouTube so the more that you
can align yourself with that goal the
better that you are in the long run
because that basically means you're
linking arms with YouTube's business
goals and whenever you do that it's
always is a smart thing to do so on a
per video basis we don't necessarily
want like we're not it's very
unrealistic to try to aim for 90 100%
retention on every single video you do
it's just not going to happen yeah but
the total watch time that your channel
is producing especially individual
videos that are producing significantly
higher numbers of total watch time those
are the ones that we really want to be
looking at and trying to figure out how
do we do more of that because that's
what YouTube
wants are are the playlists and ideal
way of making that really easy for
people to stay on a rabbit hole with you
yeah so this is a this is really a do
the right thing at the right time type
of thing but we do in the beginning when
you're experimenting with different
relevant topics that might do well based
on the patterns you found in top
performing content eventually over time
you'll start to see okay these are the
like the core four or five series that
we're just going to keep rolling out
with playlist strategy that should
really only come in when you start to
understand what are the the the
categories right so what are these
groups of related videos then we put
those into playlist and we can boost the
views with playlists because we're
intelligently grouping the videos and so
it's kind of two-sided like one side of
it is hey we're going to serve you more
of the content that based on your
engagement patterns we can just see in
the data you want more of that content
right so part of it's for the viewer but
the other side of it is to basically
assist YouTube's AI in creating data
relationships between similar videos
those and the more that we manually
assist the AI and understanding that hey
when somebody watches video a they're
very likely to also enjoy video b and c
and d and e which is really the function
of a playlist or function of you know
Target video links and cards end screens
links in the video descriptions like we
always want to be telling the viewer
here's the next best thing for you to go
watch and so playlists are just one way
that you can do that but ultimately it
does help to assist YouTube's AI in
understanding hey there's a data
relationship between these videos so
let's start recommending it more when
somebody comes across the original video
I don't know all of your clients
obviously uh but the ones that I do know
are all over 50 and freaking killing it
is is is that just who I know or is this
kind of your
Forte yeah um well we have a good
handful of very well-known clients
including you um but it's really all
ages I've helped people that are you
know 19 years old and they don't know
what they want to do in the world but
they just know they really love painting
and so I was like all right cool well
let's figure out how you can just paint
for the rest of your life and get paid
for it right so it really the things
that we teach will work in any industry
for any age group for any channel style
because it's based on how YouTube's
algorithm actually works and also how
human beings behave so I guess and um
maybe a better question is to speak
directly because I I had a lot of
viewers that come specifically to this
channel who are are midlifers right
those they're 45 and old older and
they're kind of stepping into the second
phase of their lives like maybe they've
had been a chiropractor or a nurse or a
stayhome mom and now they're like
transitioning and they uh they are
understanding that they have more they
want to share with the world and a lot
of them want to start a YouTube channel
want to build their own personal brand
so I guess you know looking at so many
of the clients that I know that are over
50 even over 60 that are are killing it
is is there a desire is it harder to
break in if if you're a certain age is
it easier yeah so um with strategy and
content planning one thing I will say
that's really important to get here is
that we do everything based on the
generation that you're looking to
attract because the way gen Z interacts
with content so different than Gen X so
different than Millennials even so
different than Boomer so different than
J A that's coming up and they literally
are growing up with you know VR headsets
and glued to devices is in the whole
thing and so that's a really important
consideration to to think about is like
what generation am I most likely to
resonate with and so it really doesn't
matter the age of the Creator themselves
what really comes up is like if you want
to Target Jen Z for example okay well
then we probably also need to include
short strategy because they grew up with
short form content if we're going after
Gen X we probably don't actually want to
include any short strategy at all so
ultimately it's not that it's easier or
harder it's more just really
understanding who the viewer is that
we're looking to attract and
understanding what they're most likely
to engage with and anyone could do that
it doesn't matter your age there are
people that you know doing toy unboxings
that aren't even you know legal limit to
age to drive and then we've got on the
other end of the spectrum you know Dad
advice for people that you know they
don't know how to fix their sink and
there's this like 60-year-old guy that's
like hey nobody ever taught you how to
do this I'm going to teach you how to do
like all of it is welcome on YouTube
that's a really good point that you've
just made um you can break in at any age
but you have to know who it is you're
targeting um and and just to kind of
illustrate that point when we were doing
some of this testing my demographics on
Instagram are considerably younger than
they are here on YouTube and um so we
kind of played with some different
formatting which you were very upfront
and saying like Okay so here's a way we
can test a thumbnail that is probably
going to appeal to a young younger
audience and it's probably not going to
appeal so much to a Gen X audience but
let's test it and I I love the fact that
you you know in real time split test
some of this stuff it's pretty fun
because without the analytics you're
just you're just it's I it's so
frustrating you have no idea what you're
doing and you're you put together this
masterpiece and you spend all this time
and then you know you hit publish and it
just flops and it shouldn't have and it
probably wouldn't have if you were
really looking at the analytics but
you know at least for someone like
me to have someone who this is what they
do and you geek out on it and you're so
you make it so simple to understand that
made all the difference in the world for
me because it really was like
French yeah it's it's huge honestly
that's basically I mean just call me the
DU lingo coach like I teach people how
to read analytics and it is it's a
foreign language like I didn't know it
in the beginning either my our first
channel and you know my sister and I we
had the fitness channel was like I
started as a YouTuber in the first like
three to five years I don't think we
ever once looked at our analytics and if
I could go back in time knowing what I
know now that'd be the only thing I'd be
looking at is who's the viewer how did
they get there what are they doing when
they're on the videos because if you
understand how to read that language you
can save so much time money stress and I
don't want to say embarrassment because
it's kind of a required thing we call
the YouTube WR of Passage it's like you
really have to leave your ego at the
door because it's not welcome there and
you have to yourself into the mindset of
what can I give to other people even if
just one other person sees this will
that be worth it to me and for us the
answer was yes but it would have been so
much more helpful if we had the textbook
you know like the the beginner crash
course on how to read the data because
without that we're basically just
shooting blind we didn't know what was
what we spent all this time money energy
filming all these videos and it's like
some did well some didn't do well we
didn't really know why and going back
it's like well oh this is the ABCs This
one did well because of this this one
did did not do well because of that
right and if you don't have somebody
there that's helping you learn that
language or translate it it can be
really difficult and you spin your your
wheels for years potentially you can
just be too close to it that's what I
think I was you know and um so anyways I
just want to thank you for your
continued patience and support and
seeing that vision and you know kind of
also knowing how I work like that's
really why this relationship worked for
me is because I just told you this can't
take a lot of time for me this can't
cost me money like I've Liz I've got to
make money from this otherwise there's
so many other things I should be doing
and you're like we trust me just trust
me we can make this make money for you
so for others who are watching and are
like okay I get it I would love to work
with Liz where should they reach out you
can find me everywhere on all socials at
Liz do video or if you're looking for
YouTube training and support you can go
to channel amplifier. comom channel
amplifier. comom all right I might cut
this part of the video out just because
I don't really know if I want you to be
giving anyone else your attention other
than me and the clients I already know
you have but I'm such a loving caring
person that if you've watched or
listened to this version of the podcast
okay you deserve to have the opportunity
to work with the best I just really
think you are absolutely the best I tell
everybody about you so thank you for
sharing your wisdom with my audience
here today and build your tribe you're
awesome thank you
w
[Music]